.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007 gogo6 Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  For license information refer to CLIENT-LICENSE.TXT
.\"
.\" $Id: gogoc.8,v 1.5 2010/03/12 22:34:10 jasminko Exp $
.\"
.Dd May 7, 2007
.Dt GOGOC 8
.Os gogoCLIENT
.Sh NAME
.Nm gogoc
.Nd gogoCLIENT
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm gogoc
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl ?\&
.Op Fl y
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl b\&
.Nm gogoc
.Op Fl f Ar config_file
.Op Fl i Ar interface_name
.Op Fl u Ar interface_name
.Op Fl s Ar interface_name
.Op Fl r Ar retry_delay
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm gogoc
provides a means to configure a tunnel obtained from a tunnel server that supports 
the tunnel setup protocol (TSP).
.Nm gogoc
will connect to a tunnel server and request a tunnel according to the specifications 
given in the configuration file.  As a background process, it will then monitor the 
state of the tunnel.  In the event of a timeout, gogoc will establish a new tunnel.
.Pp
.Nm gogoc
currently supports three types of tunnels:  
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 
.It Sy - v6v4 (IPv6 over IPv4)
Supported on FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Linux, Windows, Solaris, Darwin and OpenWRT.
.Pp
.It Sy - v6udpv4 (IPv6 over UDP over IPv4)
Supported on FreeBSD, Linux, Windows, Darwin and OpenWRT.
.Pp
.It Sy - v4v6 (IPv4 over IPv6 (DSTM))
Supported on FreeBSD and Windows.
.Pp
.El
.Sh ARGUMENTS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl h, ?\&
Displays a short usage summary and quits.
.Pp
.It Fl y\&
Automatically accept server's public key.
.Pp
.It Fl n\&
Run as a foreground process.
.Pp
.It Fl b\&
Stop trying to reconnect upon first error received.
.Pp
.It Fl f Ar configuration_file
Specifies a different configuration file.  
.br
Default is /etc/gogoc/gogoc.conf. 
.Pp
.It Fl s Ar interface_name
Overrides 
.Nm client_v4 
in 
.Xr gogoc.conf 5 
.Pp
.It Fl i Ar interface_name
Overrides 
.Nm if_tunnel_v6v4 
in 
.Xr gogoc.conf 5 
.Pp
.It Fl u Ar interface_name
Overrides 
.Nm if_tunnel_v6udpv4 
in 
.Xr gogoc.conf 5 
.Pp
.It Fl r Ar retry_delay
Overrides
.Nm retry_delay
in
.Xr gogoc.conf 5
.Pp
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gogoc.conf 5
.br
http://www.gogo6.com
.Sh ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This software uses code taken from other organizations as :
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It - Ar "RSA data security for md5."
.It - Ar "The Apache Software Foundation for Base64 encoding and decoding."
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
gogo6 Inc.
.br
http://www.gogo6.com
.br
support@gogo6.com
.br
